---
layout: post
title: Lemon Meringue Cronut
date: 2021-06-12 13:15:20 +0000
description: Rich flakey baked cronut, filled with lemon curd and topped with a light glossy meringue. Cronuts are usually fried, however this recipe has been modified to allow for quick and easy cronuts anyone can make at home. Recipe for dough modified from Dominique Ansel. # Add post description (optional)
img: post-5-cronut.jpg # Add image post (optional)
tags: [cronut, lemon, bake, meringue, dessert, croissant, donut]
author: Victoria # Add name author (optional)
---
Ingredients:
===

Cronut Dough...
---

260g flour

3g salt

32g sugar

5g instant yeadt

125ml cold water

1/2 egg 

175g soft unsalted butter


Lemon curd...
---

50g sugar

1 lemon, zest and juice

22g butter

1 egg


Swiss Meringue...
---

1 egg white

2 x weight of egg white of caster sugar

(eg if egg white weighs 35g, use 70g caster sugar)



Method:
===

Lemon Curd...
---

1. place the sugar, lemon zest and juice, and butter into a heatproof bowl and heat gently over a pan of simmering water just until the butter has melted. Remove from the heat.
2. Whisk in your egg, beating thoroughly. Return to the heat.
3. Continue whisking until the mixture thickens. 
4. Remove from the heat and sieve to remove the lemon zest. Store in the fridge in an airtight container once cooled.

Meringue...
---

1. Place the egg whites and sugar in a heatproof bowl, placed over a pan of simmering water (ban marie). Do not let the bowl touch the water.
2. whisk by hand gently until the mix reaches 70C. There should be no grains left in the sugar- pinch the mix and rub in between your fingers to check.
3. Remove from the heat and using and electric whisk, beat on medium until a thick white glossy meringue forms.

Day 1...
---

1.1 - Add the flour, salt, sugar, yeast, water, egg and 55g softened butter to a stand mixer bowl. Mix on low speed with a dough hook for 3mins, until just combined. 

1.2 Oil a large bowl, and add the dough to the bowl, covering with cling film. Set aside for 2hrs. After 2hrs, punch down the dough to remove the air. Cover again with cling film before moving to the fridge overnight.

1.3 Draw a 15cm square on baking parchment, leaving 10cm border of paper around the square. Turn this over so the pencil is facing the worksurface. 

1.4 Spread the butter onto the parchment, inside the square. Along the pencil lines, fold the parchment over the butter, to form a well sealed square with the butter encased inside. You can then use your fingers to spread the butter inside the sealed parcel to form a square of butter. Refrigerate along with the dough.

Day 2...
---

2.1 On a floured work surface, turn out the dough. roll into a 25cm square. Unwrap the butter square, and place on top of the square, turned at a 45 degree angle. You should now have a 'diamond' of butter ontop of your dough square.

2.2 Fold the corners of the dough over the top of the butter, and squeeze the edges of the dough to seal. 

2.3 Using a rolling pin, lightly press down on the dough and roll into a square approx. 25cm x 25cm. 

2.4 Fold opposite edges of the dough up and into the middle of the square, so both edges comes to meet, and you now have a seam down the middle of the dough. Next, fold the rectangle into 2, creating another square, by taking hold the shorter edge of your newly formed rectangle, and folding it over to the opposite edge. Wrap in cling film and leave to rest in the fridge for 1hr.

2.5 Remove from the fridge, and set aside for 10mins. Repeat the rolling step in 2.3 and 2.4. After wrapping in clingfilm, place in the fridge overnight.

Day 3...
---
3.1 - Remove dough from the fridge and set aside for 10mins. On a floured worksurface, roll the dough to a 20cm square, 1.5cm thick. Cover with clingfilm and set aside to rise for 1hr.

3.2 Using a 9cm cutter, cut out 6 circles. Using a 2.5cm cutter, cut out the centre of the circles to create a doughnut shape. 

3.3 Place on a tray lined with parchment, cover with clingfilm and set aside for 2hrs to rise. 

3.4 Preheat the oven to 220C. Brush the cronuts with egg, and bake for 30mins until golden. 

3.5 Place on a wire rack and allow to cool fully before filling.

3.6 To fill, add the lemon curd to a piping bag fitted with a piping nozzle. turn the cronuts over, and pierce the surface of the cronut with the nozzle in 4 places (each quarter of the way around the cronut), filling with a small amount of curd as you go. Turn back over and repeat with all the cronuts.

3.7 For the meringue, 

3.8 Pipe the meringue onto each cronut, and toast lightly with a blow torch. Serve on the day of making. 

3.9 These cronuts can be frozen after step 3.2.